---
eip: 1753
title: NFTs for Tickets, Memberships and Licences
author: Lucas Cullen (@BitcoinBrisbane), Kai Yeung (@CivicKai), Anna Crowley <annaelizabethcrowley@gmail.com>, Caroline Marshall <caroline.marshall888@gmail.com>, Katrina Donaghy <katrina@civicledger.com>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2019-02-06
---

## Abstract

NFT adoption has been growing rapidly in the last few years. This EIP proposes a standard for the issuance of tickets, memberships and licences as NFTs.

This Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) proposes an Ethereum standard for the issuance of licences, permits and grants (Licences). 


## Motivation

This standard is intended to define a common set of rules for the issuance of tickets and memberships on the Ethereum blockchain. The standard will allow for the interoperability of tickets and memberships across different applications and platforms.

There have been previous attempts, ERC1261.

## Specification

### Methods

**NOTES**:
 - The following specifications use syntax from Solidity `0.8.24` (or above)
 - Callers MUST handle `false` from `returns (bool success)`.  Callers MUST NOT assume that `false` is never returned!


```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.24;
/**
 * @dev An interface for ERC-1753, an ERC-721 extension that integrates an NFT that can be used as a ticket, membership or licence.
 */
interface IERC7641 is IERC721 {
    /**
     * @dev A function to calculate the amount of ETH claimable by a token holder at certain snapshot.
     * @param account The address of the token holder
     * @param snapshotId The snapshot id
     * @return The amount of revenue token claimable
     */
    function issue(address account, uint256 validFrom, unit256 validTo) external view returns (uint256);
    /**
     * @dev A function for token holder to claim ETH based on the token balance at certain snapshot.
     * @param snapshotId The snapshot id
     */
    function claim(uint256 snapshotId) external;
    /**
     * @dev A function to snapshot the token balance and the claimable revenue token balance
     * @return The snapshot id
     * @notice Should have `require` to avoid ddos attack
     */
    function snapshot() external returns (uint256);
    /**
     * @dev A function to calculate the amount of ETH redeemable by a token holder upon burn
     * @param amount The amount of token to burn
     * @return The amount of revenue ETH redeemable
     */
    function redeemableOnBurn(uint256 amount) external view returns (uint256);
    /**
     * @dev A function to burn tokens and redeem the corresponding amount of revenue token
     * @param amount The amount of token to burn
     */
    function burn(uint256 amount) external;
}
```


#### issue

Issues an ethereum address a ticket or membership between the specified date range.  This should return the NFT token ID.

``` js
function issue(address who, uint256 validFrom, uint256 validTo) public returns (uint256);
```

#### hasValid

Checks to see if an ethereum address has a valid ticket or membership.
	
``` js
function hasValid(address who) external view returns (bool);
```

#### isValid

Checks to see if the NFT token is valid.  Tickets could be invalidated if they are transferred to another address, or they have expired or been scanned upon entry.

``` js
function isValid(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (bool);
```


## Purchasing tickets or issuing memberships

This will be performed by the `mint` function of the ERC721 standard.



## Rationale

The use of smart contracts to apply for, renew, suspend and revoke Licences will free up much needed government resources and allow for the more efficient management of Licences. The EIP also seeks to improve the end user experience of the Licence system. In an era of open government, there is also an increased expectation that individuals will be able to easily access Licence registries, and that the process will be transparent and fair.

By creating an EIP, we hope to increase the use of Ethereum based and issued Licences, which will address these issues.

The Ethereum blockchain is adaptable to various Licences and government authorities. It will also be easily translatable into other languages and can be used by other governmental authorities across the world. Moreover, a blockchain will more effectively protect the privacy of Licence-holders’ data, particularly at a time of an ever-increasing volume of government data breaches.

The EIP has been developed following the review of a number of licensing regulations at the national and state level in Australia. The review allowed the identification of the common licence requirements and criteria for incorporation into the EIP. We have included these in the proposed standard but seek feedback on whether these criteria are sufficient and universal.

## Test Cases

A real world example of a Licence is a permit required to camp in a national park in Australia (e.g. Kakadu national park in the Northern Territory of Australia) under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000 (Cth) (EPBC Act) and the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000 (the Regulations). Pursuant to the EPBC Act and the Regulations, the Director of National Parks oversees a camping permit system, which is intended to help regulate certain activities in National Parks. Permits allowing access to National Parks can be issued to legal or natural persons if the applicant has met certain conditions.

The current digital portal and application form to camp at Kakadu National Park (the Application) can be accessed at: https://www.environment.gov.au/system/files/resources/b3481ed3-164b-4e72-a9f8-91fc987d90e7/files/kakadu-camping-permit-form-19jan2015-pdf.pdf

The user must provide the following details when making an Application:

* The full name and contact details of each person to whom the permit is to be issued;

* If the applicant is a company or other incorporated body:

o the name, business address and postal address of the company or incorporated body;

o if the applicant is a company—

* the full name of each of the directors of the company;

* the full name and contact details of the person completing the application form;

* the ACN or ABN of the company or other incorporated body (if applicable);

* Details of the proposed camping purpose (e.g. private camping, school group, etc.);

* A start date and duration for the camping (up to the maximum duration allowed by law);

* Number of campers (up to the maximum allowed by law);

* All other required information not essential to the issuance of the Licence (e.g. any particular medical needs of the campers); and

* Fees payable depending on the site, duration and number of campers.

The Regulations also set out a number of conditions that must be met by licensees when the permit has been issued. The Regulations allow the Director of National Parks to cancel, renew or transfer the licence. The above workflow could be better performed by way of a smart contract.

The key criteria required as part of this process form part of the proposed Ethereum standard. We have checked this approach by also considering the issuance of a Commercial Fishing Licence under Part 8 “Licensing and other commercial fisheries management” of the Fisheries Management (General) Regulation 2010 (NSW) (Fisheries Regulations) made pursuant to the Fisheries Management Act 1994 (NSW) (Fisheries Act).

## Implementation

The issuance and ownership of a Licence can be digitally represented on the Ethereum blockchain.

Smart contracts can be used to embed regulatory requirements with respect to the relevant Licence in the blockchain. The Licence would be available electronically in the form of a token. This might be practically represented by a QR code, for example, displaying the current Licence information. The digital representation of the Licence would be stored in a digital wallet, typically an application on a smartphone or tablet computer. The proposed standard allows issuing authorities or regulators to amend, revoke or deny Licences from time to time, with the result of their determinations reflected in the Licence token in near real-time. Licence holders will therefore be notified almost instantly of any amendments, revocations or issues involving their Licence.

## Interface 

### Solidity Example
```solidity
interface EIP1753 {
	
	function grantAuthority(address who) external;
	function revokeAuthority(address who) external;
	function hasAuthority(address who) external view returns (bool);
	
	function issue(address who, uint256 from, uint256 to) external;
	function revoke(address who) external;
	
	function hasValid(address who) external view returns (bool);
	function purchase(uint256 validFrom, uint256 validTo) external payable;
}

pragma solidity ^0.5.3;

contract EIP is EIP1753 {

	string public name = "Kakadu National Park Camping Permit";
	uint256 public totalSupply;

	address private _owner;
	mapping(address => bool) private _authorities;
	mapping(address => Permit) private _holders;
	
	struct Permit {
		address issuer;
		uint256 validFrom;
		uint256 validTo;
	}
	
	constructor() public {
		_owner = msg.sender;
	}
	
	function grantAuthority(address who) public onlyOwner() {
		_authorities[who] = true;
	}
	
	function revokeAuthority(address who) public onlyOwner() {
		delete _authorities[who];
	}
	
	function hasAuthority(address who) public view returns (bool) {
		return _authorities[who] == true;
	}
	
	function issue(address who, uint256 start, uint256 end) public onlyAuthority() {
		_holders[who] = Permit(_owner, start, end);
		totalSupply += 1;
	}
	
	function revoke(address who) public onlyAuthority() {
		delete _holders[who];
	}
	
	function hasValid(address who) external view returns (bool) {
	    return _holders[who].validFrom > now && _holders[who].validTo < now;
	}

	function purchase(uint256 validFrom, uint256 validTo) external payable {
	    require(msg.value == 1 ether, "Incorrect fee");
	    issue(msg.sender, validFrom, validTo);
	}
	
	modifier onlyOwner() {
		require(msg.sender == _owner, "Only owner can perform this function");
		_;
	}
	
	modifier onlyAuthority() {
		require(hasAuthority(msg.sender), "Only an authority can perform this function");
        _;
	}
}
```

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
